# Airplane Passenger Satisfaction Analysis

In the highly competitive aviation industry, every company strives to differentiate itself from competitors to attract customers. For airlines, customer experience is one of the most critical factors influencing passengers' choice of an airline. Therefore, it is important for an airline to understand passengers' needs and enhance their satisfaction with the services provided, as passenger satisfaction significantly impacts the company both financially and non-financially.

An airline from the United States wishes to analyze passenger satisfaction through customer satisfaction surveys to assess how well the services provided meet passengers' expectations. The goal is to identify factors influencing passenger satisfaction regarding the conducted flights.

In this project, i will position myself as a data analyst in an airline company where i will formulate a series of questions based on the business needs and potential issues faced by the company related to Airline Passenger Satisfaction data. I will answer these questions through data analysis, narratives and visualizations, and then present insights from the analysis that stakeholders can use as a basis for business decision-making.

The data analysis i will conduct focuses on Unites States airline companies aiming to understand passenger satisfaction levels after flights and the factors influencing satisfied and dissatisfied passengers with airline services. The analysis will involve examining the satisfaction levels of passengers who feel satisfied, neutral, or dissatisfied in general, and identifying factors affecting passenger satisfaction based on survey results, passenger segmentation, and flight histories. With the information obtained, the company can identify areas of passenger satisfaction that need improvement and gain insights for the development of future flight services to enhance customer loyalty.
